Diagnosis and treatment of pneumonitis with a new coronavirus infection
Since December 2019, patients with pneumonitis infected by a new type of coronavirus have appeared in Wuhan City, Hubei Province. With the spread of the epidemic, such cases have been found in other regions of China and abroad. Through the adoption of a series of preventive control and medical treatment measures, the rise in the epidemic situation in China has been contained to a certain extent, but the number of cases outside the country has shown an upward trend.
I. Etiology characteristics
The new coronavirus belongs to the β-type coronavirus, which has an envelope, the particles are round or oval, often polymorphic, and the diameter is 60-140nm. Its genetic characteristics are significantly different from SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. Current research shows that it has more than 85% homology with bat SARS-like coronavirus (bat-SL-CoVZC45). In vitro isolation and culture, 2019-nCoV can be found in human respiratory epithelial cells in about 96 hours, while it takes about 6 days to isolate and culture in Vero E6 and Huh-7 cell lines.
Most of the understanding of the physical and chemical properties of coronavirus comes from the research of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. The virus is sensitive to ultraviolet light and heat. Lipid solvents such as ether, 75% ethanol, chlorine-containing disinfectant, peracetic acid, and chloroform can effectively inactivate the virus at 30 ° C for 30 minutes, and chlorhexidine cannot effectively inactivate the virus.
Second, the epidemiological characteristics
(1) Source of infection.
The sources of infection seen so far are mainly patients with new coronavirus infections. Asymptomatic infection can also be a source of infection.
(B) the way of transmission.
Respiratory droplets and close contact transmission are the main routes of transmission. There is the possibility of aerosol transmission in a relatively closed environment for a long time exposure to high concentrations of aerosol. As new coronaviruses can be isolated in feces and urine, attention should be paid to the environmental pollution caused by feces and urine to aerosol or contact transmission.
(3) Susceptible people.
The crowd is generally susceptible.
Third, pathological changes
Based on the current limited autopsy and puncture histopathological observations are summarized below.
(A) The lungs.
The lungs showed consolidation to varying degrees.
Serum, fibrinous exudate, and transparent membrane formation were seen in the alveolar cavity; exudation cells were mainly monocytes and macrophages, and multinucleated giant cells were easily seen. Type II alveolar epithelial cells proliferated significantly, and some cells were shed. Inclusion bodies can be seen in type II alveolar epithelial cells and macrophages. Alveolar septal vascular congestion and edema, monocyte and lymphocytic infiltration and intravascular clear thrombosis can be seen. Focal hemorrhage and necrosis of lung tissue may occur with hemorrhagic infarction. Partial alveolar exudate myogenesis and pulmonary interstitial fibrosis.
The epithelium of the bronchial mucosa in the lungs was shed, and the formation of mucus and mucus plugs was visible in the cavity. A small number of alveoli are over-inflated, the alveolar septum is broken, or the cysts are formed.
Coronavirus particles can be seen in the cytoplasm of bronchial mucosal epithelium and type II alveolar epithelial cells under electron microscope. Immunohistochemical staining showed that some alveolar epithelium and macrophages were positive for new coronavirus antigens, and RT-PCR was positive for new coronavirus nucleic acids.
(B) the spleen, hilar lymph nodes and bone marrow
   The spleen was significantly reduced. The number of lymphocytes was significantly reduced, focal hemorrhage and necrosis, macrophage proliferation in the spleen, and phagocytosis were visible; the number of lymph nodes in lymph nodes was small, and necrosis was visible. Immunohistochemical staining showed that CD4 + T and CD8 + T cells were reduced in the spleen and lymph nodes. Bone marrow three-line cells decreased.
(Three) the heart and blood vessels
   Degeneration and necrosis of myocardial cells can be seen, and a few monocytes, lymphocytes and / or neutrophils infiltrate in the stroma. Endothelial shedding, inflammation of the intima, and thrombosis.
(4) Liver and Gallbladder
   Increased volume, dark red. Hepatocyte degeneration, focal necrosis with neutrophil infiltration; hepatic sinus congestion, lymphocyte and monocyte infiltration in the manifold area, and microthrombosis. The gallbladder is highly filled.
(5) Kidney
Proteinous exudate was seen in the glomerular cavity, and renal tubular epithelium was degenerated and shed, and a transparent cast was seen. Interstitial hyperemia, visible microthrombus and focal fibrosis.
(6) Other organs
Congestion and edema of brain tissue, and degeneration of some neurons. Adrenal glands show focal necrosis. Mucosal epithelium of the esophagus, stomach, and intestine can degenerate, necrotize, and fall off to varying degrees.
Fourth, clinical characteristics
(1) Clinical manifestations.
Based on the current epidemiological investigation, the incubation period is 1-14 days, mostly 3-7 days.
The main manifestations are fever, dry cough, and fatigue. A few patients have symptoms such as nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat, myalgia and diarrhea. Severe patients usually have dyspnea and / or hypoxemia one week after the onset, and the severe ones quickly progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, difficult to correct metabolic acidosis, coagulation dysfunction, and multiple organ function. Exhaustion etc. It is worth noting that in the course of severe and critically ill patients, there may be moderate to low fever, even without obvious fever.
Some children and neonatal cases may have atypical symptoms, manifested as gastrointestinal symptoms such as vomiting and diarrhea, or only manifested as mental weakness and shortness of breath.
Mild patients showed only low fever, mild fatigue, and no pneumonia.
Judging from the current cases, most patients have a good prognosis, and a few patients are critically ill. The prognosis for the elderly and those with chronic underlying disease is poor. The clinical course of pregnant women with new coronavirus pneumonia is similar to that of patients of the same age. Symptoms in children are relatively mild.
(2) Laboratory inspections.
General inspection
In the early stage of the onset, the total number of white blood cells in the peripheral blood was normal or decreased, and the lymphocyte count decreased. In some patients, liver enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), muscle enzymes, and myoglobin increased; in some critical cases, troponin increased. Most patients have elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate and normal procalcitonin. In severe cases, D-dimer increases and peripheral blood lymphocytes progressively decrease. Severe and critically ill patients often have elevated inflammatory factors.
2. Etiology and serology
(1) Etiological examination: New-type coronavirus nucleic acids can be detected in nasopharyngeal swabs, sputum and other lower respiratory tract secretions, blood, feces and other specimens using RT-PCR or / and NGS methods. Detection of lower respiratory tract specimens (sputum or airway extracts) is more accurate. Submit specimens for inspection as soon as possible after collection.
(2) Serological examination: Most of the new coronavirus-specific IgM antibodies begin to show positive after 3-5 days of onset. The recovery period of IgG antibody titers is 4 times or more higher than that of the acute phase.
(Three) chest imaging.
Multiple small patchy shadows and interstitial changes appeared early, and the extrapulmonary bands were obvious. Furthermore, it develops multiple ground glass infiltration and infiltrates in both lungs. In severe cases, pulmonary consolidation and pleural effusion are rare.
Five, diagnostic criteria
(1) Suspected cases.
Comprehensive analysis of the following epidemiological history and clinical manifestations:
Epidemiological history
(1) Travel history or residence history of Wuhan and surrounding areas or other communities with case reports within 14 days before the onset of illness;
(2) History of contact with new coronavirus infected persons within 14 days before the onset of illness. People with a new coronavirus infection are those who test positive for a nucleic acid.
(3) Patients with fever or respiratory symptoms from Wuhan and surrounding areas, or from communities with case reports, within 14 days before the onset of illness;
(4) Aggressive onset: 2 or more cases of fever and / or respiratory symptoms in a small area such as home, office, school class, etc. within 2 weeks.
Clinical manifestations
(1) fever and / or respiratory symptoms;
(2) With the imaging characteristics of pneumonia mentioned above;
(3) The total number of white blood cells is normal or decreased in the early stage of onset, and the lymphocyte count is normal or decreased.
Have any one of the epidemiological history, meet any two of the clinical manifestations. If there is no clear epidemiological history, it meets 3 of the clinical manifestations.
(B) confirmed cases.
Suspected cases with one of the following etiology or serological evidence:
1. Real-time fluorescent RT-PCR detection of new coronavirus nucleic acid positive;
2. Viral gene sequencing, highly homologous to known new coronaviruses;
3. Serum neocoronavirus-specific IgM antibodies and IgG antibodies were positive; serum neocoronavirus-specific IgG antibodies changed from negative to positive or the recovery period was 4 times or more higher than in the acute phase.
Clinical classification
(1) Lightweight.
The clinical symptoms were mild, and no pneumonia manifested on imaging.
(B) ordinary type.
With fever, respiratory tract and other symptoms, imaging shows pneumonia.
(3) Heavy.
Adults meet any of the following:
1. Shortness of breath, RR ≥ 30 times / minute;
2. In the resting state, the oxygen saturation is ≤93%;
3. Arterial blood oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) / oxygen concentration (FiO2) ≤300mmHg (1mmHg = 0.133kPa).
At high altitudes (above 1,000 meters), PaO2 / FiO2 should be corrected according to the following formula: PaO2 / FiO2 X [Atmospheric pressure (mmHg) / 760]
   Pulmonary imaging showed that the lesions progressed significantly within 50-48 hours.
   Children meet any of the following:
1. Shortness of breath (<2 months old, RR> 60 times / minute; 2-12 months old, RR> 50 times / minute; 1-5 years old, RR> 40 times / minute;> 5 years old, RR> 30 Times / minute), except for the effects of fever and crying;
  2. In resting state, it means oxygen saturation "92%;
  3. Assisted breathing (groaning, wing flaps, triple concave sign), cyanosis, intermittent apnea;
  4. Lethargy and convulsions;
  5. Refuse to feed or feed, with signs of dehydration.
(4) Dangerous.
One of the following:
1. Respiratory failure occurs and requires mechanical ventilation;
2. Shock occurs;
3. Combining other organ failures requires ICU monitoring and treatment.
Seven, heavy and critical clinical warning indicators
  (1) Adult
1. Progressive decrease in peripheral blood lymphocytes;
2. Peripheral blood inflammatory factors, such as IL-6, CRP, are increasing;
3. Progressive elevation of lactic acid;
4. Intrapulmonary disease progresses rapidly in the short term.
(Two) children
1. Increased breathing rate;
2. Poor mental response and drowsiness;
3. Progressive elevation of lactic acid;
4. Imaging showed rapid progress of bilateral or multilobe infiltration, pleural effusion, or short-term lesions.
5.3 Infants under the age of 1 month may have underlying diseases (congenital heart disease, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, respiratory malformations, abnormal hemoglobin, severe malnutrition, etc.) and have immunodeficiency or low levels (long-term use of immunosuppressants).
Differential diagnosis
(1) The mild manifestations of new coronavirus infections need to be distinguished from upper respiratory tract infections caused by other viruses.
(2) The new type of coronavirus pneumonia is mainly distinguished from other known viral pneumonias such as influenza virus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus and the like from Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumonia and bacterial pneumonia. Especially for suspected cases, methods such as rapid antigen detection and multiplex PCR nucleic acid detection should be adopted to detect common respiratory pathogens.
(3) It should also be distinguished from non-infectious diseases such as vasculitis, dermatomyositis, and organizing pneumonia.
Finding and reporting of cases
When medical staff at various levels and various medical institutions find a suspected case that meets the definition of a case, they should immediately conduct a single-person isolation treatment. The in-hospital expert consultation or the attending physician's consultation still considers the suspected case, and direct online reporting within 2 hours, and Collect specimens for new coronavirus nucleic acid testing, and transfer suspected patients to designated hospitals as soon as possible while ensuring safe transport. Patients who have close contact with the new coronavirus infection, even if the common respiratory pathogens are positive, it is recommended that the new coronavirus pathogenic test be performed in time.
Suspected cases were negative for two consecutive respiratory pathogenic nucleic acid tests (sampling time interval of at least 24 hours), and the new coronavirus-specific antibodies IgM and IgG were still negative 7 days after onset, which could rule out the diagnosis of suspected cases.
X. Treatment
(1) Determine the treatment place according to the condition.
1. Suspected and confirmed cases should be isolated and treated in designated hospitals with effective isolation and protection conditions. Suspected cases should be treated in isolation and in a single room. Multiple confirmed cases can be admitted to the same ward.
2. Critical cases should be admitted to ICU as soon as possible.
(B) General treatment.
1. Rest in bed, strengthen supportive treatment to ensure sufficient heat; pay attention to water and electrolyte balance to maintain internal environment stability; closely monitor vital signs, oxygen saturation, etc.
2. Monitor blood routine, urine routine, CRP, biochemical indicators (liver enzyme, myocardial enzyme, renal function, etc.), blood coagulation function, arterial blood gas analysis, chest imaging, etc. according to the condition, if possible, cytokine detection is feasible.
3. Give effective oxygen therapy measures in time, including nasal cannula, mask oxygen and transnasal high-flow oxygen therapy. Conditions can be treated with mixed oxygen and hydrogen inhalation (H2 / O2: 66.6% / 33.3%).
4. Antiviral therapy: try alpha-interferon nebulization inhalation (5 million U each time or equivalent for adults, add 2ml of sterilized water for injection, 2 times a day), lopinavir / ritonavir (adults) 200 mg / 50 mg per capsule, 2 capsules each time, 2 times a day, the course of treatment should not exceed 10 days), or intravenous injection of ribavirin (500 mg for adults, 2 times a day), ribavirin Welin (recommended for use with interferon or lopinavir / ritonavir, 500mg / time for adults, 2 to 3 intravenous infusions per day, less than 10 days), chloroquine phosphate (18-65 years old) Adults. Those who weigh more than 50 kilograms, 500 mg / time, twice daily for 7 days; for those who weigh less than 50 kilograms, 500 mg each time on the first and second days, twice a day, and every third to seventh days 500mg / time, once daily), Abidol (200mg / time for adults, 3 times daily, the course of treatment does not exceed 10 days). Attention should be paid to the adverse reactions of the above drugs, contraindications (such as chloroquine disabled in patients with heart disease), and interaction with other drugs. To further evaluate the efficacy of the currently tested drugs in clinical applications. It is not recommended to use 3 or more antiviral drugs at the same time, and the use of related drugs should be stopped when there are intolerable side effects. For the treatment of pregnant women, the number of weeks of pregnancy should be considered, and as far as possible, drugs that have a small impact on the fetus, and whether to treat after termination of pregnancy should be informed and informed.
5. Antibacterial drug treatment: Avoid blind or inappropriate use of antibacterial drugs, especially the combination of broad-spectrum antibacterial drugs.
(3) Treatment of severe and critical cases.
1. Treatment principle: Based on symptomatic treatment, actively prevent complications, treat basic diseases, prevent secondary infections, and provide organ function support in a timely manner.
2. Respiratory support:
(1) Oxygen therapy: Severe patients should receive nasal cannula or mask to inhale oxygen, and assess in time whether respiratory distress and / or hypoxemia is relieved.
(2) High-flow nasal catheter oxygen therapy or non-invasive mechanical ventilation: When patients with respiratory distress and / or hypoxemia cannot be relieved after receiving standard oxygen therapy, high-flow nasal catheter oxygen therapy or non-invasive ventilation can be considered. If the condition does not improve or worsens within a short time (1-2 hours), tracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation should be performed in time.
3) Invasive mechanical ventilation: use lung protective ventilation strategy, that is, small tidal volume (6-8ml / kg ideal body weight) and low level airway platform pressure (<30cmH2O) for mechanical ventilation to reduce ventilator-related lung injury. When ensuring the airway platform pressure "35cmH2O, high PEEP can be appropriately used to keep the airway warm and humid, to avoid prolonged sedation, to awaken patients early and perform lung rehabilitation treatment. Many patients have human-machine synchronization, and sedation and muscle relaxants should be used in time. According to the airway secretions, closed sputum suction is selected, and if necessary, bronchoscopy is performed to take corresponding treatment.
(4) Salvage treatment: For patients with severe ARDS, it is recommended to perform lung expansion. In the case of sufficient human resources, prone ventilation should be performed for more than 12 hours per day. If prone position mechanical ventilation is not effective, if conditions permit, extracorporeal membrane pulmonary oxygenation (ECMO) should be considered as soon as possible. Relevant indications: ① When FiO2> 90%, the oxygenation index is less than 80mmHg, which lasts for more than 3-4 hours; ②Airway plateau pressure> 35cmH2O. For patients with simple respiratory failure, the VV-ECMO mode is preferred; if circulatory support is required, the VA-ECMO mode is used. When the underlying disease is under control and cardiopulmonary function shows signs of recovery, weaning trials can begin.
3. Circulation support: on the basis of adequate fluid resuscitation, improve microcirculation, use vasoactive drugs, closely monitor changes in blood pressure, heart rate and urine volume of patients, and lactic acid and alkali residuals in arterial blood gas analysis, and perform noninvasive or invasive blood if necessary. Hydrodynamic monitoring, such as echo Doppler, echocardiography, invasive blood pressure or continuous cardiac output (PiCCO) monitoring. In the treatment process, pay attention to the liquid balance strategy to avoid over or under.
If it is found that the patient's sudden increase in heart rate is greater than 20% of the baseline value or the blood pressure has dropped by more than 20% of the baseline value, if accompanied by symptoms such as poor skin perfusion and decreased urine output, the patient should be closely observed for septic shock, digestion Road bleeding or heart failure.
4. Renal failure and renal replacement therapy: Renal impairment in critically ill patients should actively look for the causes of renal impairment, such as hypoperfusion and drugs. For the treatment of patients with renal failure, attention should be paid to body fluid balance, acid-base balance and electrolyte balance, and nutritional support treatment should pay attention to nitrogen balance, calories and trace elements supplement. Severe patients can choose continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). Its indications include: ① hyperkalemia; ② acidosis; ③ pulmonary edema or excessive water load; ④ fluid management in the case of multiple organ dysfunction.
5. Plasma therapy for recoverers: It is suitable for patients with rapid disease progression, severe and critically ill patients.
6. Blood purification treatment: The blood purification system includes plasma exchange, adsorption, perfusion, blood / plasma filtration, etc., which can remove inflammatory factors and block the "cytokine storm", thereby reducing the damage to the body caused by the inflammatory response. It can be used for heavy, Early and Mid-term Treatment of Cytokine Storms in Critical Patients.
    7. Immunotherapy: For patients with extensive lung disease and severe patients, and laboratory testing of elevated IL-6 levels, tocilizumab can be used. The first dose is 4-8mg / kg, the recommended dose is 400mg, 0.9% physiological saline is diluted to 100ml, and the infusion time is more than 1 hour; if the first medication is not effective, it can be applied once more after 12 hours (dose is the same as before), cumulative The maximum number of administrations is 2 times, and the maximum single dose does not exceed 800 mg. Pay attention to allergic reactions, and those with active infection such as tuberculosis are prohibited.
8. Other treatment measures
For patients with progressive deterioration of oxygenation index, rapid imaging progress, and excessive activation of the body's inflammatory response, glucocorticoids should be used for a short period of time (3 to 5 days) as appropriate. The recommended dose does not exceed 1 to 2 mg / kg of methylprednisolone. / Day, it should be noted that larger doses of glucocorticoids will delay the removal of coronavirus due to immunosuppressive effects; Xuebijing 100ml / time can be administered intravenously, twice daily treatment; intestinal microecological regulators can be used to maintain Intestinal micro-ecological balance, to prevent secondary bacterial infections; in some cases, for critically ill patients with high inflammatory response, the use of extracorporeal blood purification technology can be considered; when conditions permit, plasma treatment can be used during recovery.
In children with severe and critical cases, intravenous infusion of gamma globulin may be considered as appropriate.
Pregnant women with severe or critically severe new coronavirus pneumonia should actively terminate their pregnancy, and a cesarean delivery is preferred.
Patients often have anxiety and fear, and psychological counseling should be strengthened.
(4) Chinese medicine treatment.
Discharge standards and precautions after discharge
(A) discharge standards
1. The body temperature returns to normal for more than 3 days;
2. Respiratory symptoms improved significantly;
3. Lung imaging showed marked improvement in acute exudative lesions;
4. Negative nucleic acid test of sputum, nasopharyngeal swab and other respiratory specimens for two consecutive times (sampling interval at least 24 hours).
Those who meet the above conditions can be discharged.
(Two) matters needing attention after discharge
1. The designated hospitals should make good contact with the primary medical institutions where the patients live, share medical records, and promptly push the discharged patients' information to the patient's jurisdiction or the residential committees and primary medical institutions.
2. After the patient is discharged from the hospital, it is recommended to continue the isolation management and health monitoring for 14 days, wear a mask, and live in a well-ventilated single room conditionally to reduce close contact with family members, share meals, and do well. Hygiene and avoid going out.
3. It is recommended to follow up and return to the hospital in the 2nd and 4th week after discharge.
12. Nosocomial infection control
(1) Strict implementation of standard prevention.
In accordance with the standard precautionary principles, medical personnel do a good job of controlling hospital infections such as personal protection, hand hygiene, ward management, environmental ventilation, cleaning and disinfection of object surfaces, and medical waste management in accordance with the risks that medical operations may spread. An infection occurs.
(2) Personal protection of medical personnel.
1. All medical personnel should wear medical masks during the diagnosis and treatment activities.
2. Pre-examination and triage office: wear work clothes, work caps, and medical surgical masks.
3. Fever clinic, respiratory clinic, emergency department, infectious disease department and isolation ward: wear daily work clothes, disposable isolation gowns, work caps, and medical protective masks during routine diagnostic activities and rounds; add respiratory tract samples when wearing Protective goggles or face shields; wear latex gloves when in contact with blood, body fluids, secretions, or excreta; wear intubation, bronchoscopy, airway care, and sputum when aerosol or spray operations may occur Medical protective masks, goggles or protective screens, latex gloves, medical protective clothing (plus disposable impermeable isolation clothing), and a respiratory hood if necessary.
4. Medical personnel should strictly follow the procedures for putting on and taking off personal protective equipment, and it is forbidden to wear personal protective equipment to leave the contaminated area to avoid cross-contamination in various areas.
5． Medical institutions should reasonably arrange the working hours of medical staff, strengthen the monitoring of symptoms, and promptly investigate those who have fever, cough and other symptoms.
(3) Other matters needing attention.
1. The medical staff and patient passageway of the isolation ward shall be separated, and the medical staff passageway shall be provided with a buffer zone.
2. Wearing gloves is not a substitute for hand hygiene.
3. Patients and accompanying staff should wear masks.
